Document Kernel specific settings (#414)
giantswarm/docs: src/content/reference/kernel-settings/_index.md

---
title: Tuned kernel settings
description: Complete list of the tuned CoreOS kernel settings for the Giant Swarm clusters.
date: 2020-02-20
layout: subsection
weight: 100
---

# Kernel settings

> For the Giant Swarm tenant clusters and the applications running in it to run properly, some kernel settings need to be tuned at the OS level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For running applications on a Giant Swarm cluster properly, some kernel settings need to be tuned at the OS level.
```

> ## General Performance and Security settings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## General Performance and Security settings

```

| Setting                                | Value         | Description                                                 |
| ---                                    | ---           | ---                                                         |
| kernel.kptr_restrict    	             | 2             | Hide kernel pointers to mitigate the kernels attack surface |
| kernel.sysrq   	                     | 0             | Reduce the kernel's attack surface                          | 

> | net.ipv4.conf.all.log_martians  	     | 1             |                                                             |  

Reviewer: What about adding a description line for all settings?

Author: Let me get one

| net.ipv4.tcp_timestamps                | 0             | Do not add timestamps to use less CPU cycles                |
| net.ipv6.conf.all.accept_redirects     | 0             |                                                             |
| net.ipv6.conf.default.accept_redirects | 0             |                                                             |
| net.ipv4.conf.all.rp_filter            | 1             | Harden SSH security                                         |
| net.ipv4.conf.all.arp_ignore           | 1             | Harden SSH security                                         |
| net.ipv4.conf.all.arp_announce         | 2             | Harden SSH security                                         |

## Kubernetes specific tuning

| Setting                                | Value         | Description                                                                 |
| ---                                    | ---           | ---                                                                         |
| net.ipv4.ip_local_reserved_ports   	 | 30000 - 32767 | Reserving for Node Ports allocations to avoid conflicts with kube-apiserver |

> ## Docker specific tuning

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Docker specific tuning

```

| Setting                                | Value         | Description                                                         |
| ---                                    | ---           | ---                                                                 |
| fs.inotify.max_user_watches            | 16384         | Increate the max number of opened file watches to avoid docker lock |
| fs.inotify.max_user_instances          | 8192          | Increate the max number of file descriptors to avoid docker lock    |

> ## Workload specific tuning

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Workload specific tuning
```

| ---                                    | ---           | ---                                                                 |
| kernel.kptr_restrict    	             | 2             | Hide kernel pointers to mitigate the kernels attack surface         |
| kernel.sysrq   	                     | 0             | Reduce the kernel's attack surface                                  | 
| net.ipv4.conf.all.log_martians  	     | 1             | Log all martians packets coming to existing network interfaces      |  
| net.ipv4.conf.all.send_redirects  	 | 0             | Do not send redirects for IPv4                                      |
| net.ipv4.conf.default.accept_redirects | 0             | Do not accept redirects for IPv4                                    |
| net.ipv4.conf.default.log_martians     | 1             | Log all martians packets coming to freshly added network interfaces |
| net.ipv4.tcp_timestamps                | 0             | Do not add timestamps to use less CPU cycles                        |
| net.ipv6.conf.all.accept_redirects     | 0             | Do not send redirects for IPv6                                      |

> | net.ipv4.conf.default.accept_redirects | 0             | Do not accept redirects for IPv6                                    |       

Reviewer 2: The name of the setting indicates that it is about IPv4. Is the description (IPv6) correct?

Author: My apologies, I made a mistake. I also reordered the fields if you want to take another look

---
title: Tuned kernel settings
description: Complete list of the tuned CoreOS kernel settings for Giant Swarm clusters.
date: 2020-02-20
layout: subsection
weight: 100
---

# Kernel settings

> To run applications on a Giant Swarm cluster properly, some kernel settings need to be tuned at the OS level.

Reviewer 3: This sounds to me a bit as if there is something that needs to be done by the reader of the document. Maybe we can be more clear that this is done by us and documenting the current settings.

> To run applications on a Giant Swarm cluster properly, some kernel settings need to be tuned at the OS level.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To properly run applications on a Giant Swarm cluster, we ensure that some kernel settings are tuned at the OS level. 
```

| net.ipv4.conf.all.rp_filter            | 1             | Harden SSH security                                                 |
| net.ipv4.conf.all.arp_ignore           | 1             | Harden SSH security                                                 |
| net.ipv4.conf.all.arp_announce         | 2             | Harden SSH security                                                 |

## Kubernetes specific tuning

| Setting                                | Value         | Description                                                                 |
| ---                                    | ---           | ---                                                                         |
| net.ipv4.ip_local_reserved_ports   	 | 30000 - 32767 | Reserving for Node Ports allocations to avoid conflicts with kube-apiserver |

## Docker specific tuning

| Setting                                | Value         | Description                                                         |
| ---                                    | ---           | ---                                                                 |

> | fs.inotify.max_user_watches            | 16384         | Increate the max number of opened file watches to avoid docker lock |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| fs.inotify.max_user_watches            | 16384         | Increase the max number of opened file watches to avoid docker lock |

> | fs.inotify.max_user_instances          | 8192          | Increate the max number of file descriptors to avoid docker lock    |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| fs.inotify.max_user_instances          | 8192          | Increase the max number of file descriptors to avoid docker lock    |
```
